Discover Python 3 with all its advantages, learn why and how Fedora will make it the default Python implementation and how you can benefit from switching to it. Notes on porting included!

====

DevConf (Developer Conference) is focused on general Linux development, advanced topics of administration, Enterprise Java development, and emerging technologies. 

Presentation types:

 *   Presentation & discussion for up to 200 people (40 minutes)
 *   Hands-on lab/workshop for up to 40 people (propose a duration)
 *   Lightning talks (up to 10 minutes)

The entire conference is in English.

Deadline for submitting proposals is November 30, 2015. 

* Required

    Proposed topic: What's New in Python 3
    Session type: Presentation (40 minutes)
    Brief abstract: |
        Please describe your topic and provide link to the project. Is a live demo part of your session?

Python 3 is a better language than Python 2.
Unfortunately, for most projects, "porting to Python 3" means writing code
that works on both versions unchanged: a subset that is, ironically, a worse
language than Python 2.7.

So, why are we doing this? What's the silver lining? What awaits you in
the future – on the day when you can drop support for Python 2?

Why should you care about chained exceptions, dict views, nonlocal variables,
extended unpacking, keyword-only arguments, async functions,
matrix multiplication, isolated mode, or or type annotations?
How can these features help you write better programs, find bugs faster,
describe your logic more clearly, and have more fun doing it?

Python website: https://www.python.org/
There may be a live demo, but if it fails the talk will still work.

    Proposed category
    Security, Cloud, JBoss, Containers, Virtualization, Fedora, Kernel, Networking, Development, Desktop, Userspace, Testing...

    Technical level of your session: Application - minimal background knowledge is required, however attendees should have general development/admin skills

    Presenter name: Petr Viktorin
    Email: pviktori@redhat.com
    Brief background info: |
        What company do you work for? What job do you do? What open-source projects are you involved in? ...

As a Python developer on Red Hat's developer experience team, my main job is
porting things to Python 3.
If you go to any Python meetup in the country, you'll probably find me there.

    Link(s) to a blog, a profile/personal page, Twitter: encukou.cz, @encukou

    Link to a preferred photo:

    I collect Fedora badges and my FAS username is: pviktori

    Have you been to DevConf.cz before?: Yes, as a presenter/workshop leader
    Size: M
